How do current mobile phones fit into Weiser’s vision of Ubiquitous Computing?
    Mobile phones fit well into Weiser’s vision of Ubiquitous Computing when working in the background and the user is not active handling it. He says "whenever people learn something sufficiently well, they cease to be aware of it". Based on this statement
    we can nowadays say that people are skilled using a mobile phone and its functions what confirms this statement. Additionally, Weiser says "Therefore we are trying to conceive a new way of thinking
    about computers in the world, one that takes into account the natural human environment and allows the computers themselves to vanish into
    the background." Mobile Phones often vanish in background when, for example wearing them in the trouser pocket. Still, they work in background when traking movements by gps or
    receiving messages or calls while acting kind of invisible.

What are ethical implications of the Ubiquitous Computing paradigm?
    There ethical concerns due to "totalirism" having hundreds of computers in one room sensing people and being linked by fast networks. There will probably be no privacy anymore and "a single rogue
    tab in a room could potentially record everything that happened there." So, for example credit card numbers or personal informations could be sent and sold to companies.
    Consequently, people names must be encrypted by using pseudonyms or cryptographic techniques. Jim Morris says that "computer systems should to have the same privacy safeguards as the real world, but no more, so that
    ethical conventions will apply regardless of setting" and hacking or selling information will not be possible "without leaving the digital
    equivalent of fingerprints".

“The future is already here — it’s just not very evenly distributed.” (William Gibson). Describe two examples where UbiComp has already entered everyday life.
As Weiser defined the term ubiquitous computing, the user is not allowed to interact with the device. The computer must be in background and invisible. As mentioned before, this happens when
a person is wearing the smartphone in his trouser pocket and a GPS tracking or step counter application is active. The computer is working in background and there is no need for the
person to count the steps himself or track his walk.

